[splat]
Charming little creatures...
...our earthly little
cockroaches.
[squish]
People on this planet are so
blissfully unaware.
[crunching]
On Mars we have to watch our
every step, or the roaches
exterminate us.
[smash]
[roar]
(MARCOS) It wasn't after Sheila
They're trying to get the serum.
They must know, without it, we
can't mutate!
Dammit! We're sitting ducks we
gotta move!
[whimpering]
Hang on tight!
[reving]
[shattering]
[thud]
Bastard
It must've been clinging to the
bottom of the ship
this whole time.
Hiding right in our radar's
blind spot.
We better take care of it before
more of them show up.
Marcos, Keiji, c'mon! Bring
serum and nets.
Right!
Right.
The rest of you, stay out of
sight and
do not leave the vehicle!
This roach...
...is ours.
04 WAR
(SHOKICHI) It looks like our
virus sample... is right here.
Time to inject and mutate.
(MARCOS) Wha- But the manual, It
says if  there's just one-
(SHOKICHI) Forget the damn
manual these things are
unpredictable...
We use every means possible.
[Hiss]
Huh?!
A decoy?
[buzz]
[thud]
[gasping]
[crinkling]
[chittering]
[squeak]
(SHOKICHI) They're going after
the escape vehicle!
[screech]
[sharp inhales]
[insect-like chirping noises]
[heavy fearful panting]
You've almost got it, Sheila.
The sight's over here.
Look, like this.
Your M.A.R.S. Ranking is an 89,
so you'll need to use your
brains over brawn with the
roaches.
Learn how to properly use the
net. Your life or a teammate's
may one day depend on it.
See you on Mars.
Capturing!
(NARRATOR) The net is one of
humankind's simplest but most
ingenious inventions. Its uses
are nearly limitless.
From natural materials like
cotton and hemp,
to stronger
rupture-resistant synthetics,
netting has evolved in parallel
with humanity.
[strainging gasps and squealing]
You're not going anywhere!
Captain!
(NARRATOR) The German-made
Anti-Terraformar Net Launcher is
designed to withstand...
...up to three times a
terraformar's strength.
[struggling noises]
Terraformar captured.
[sighs]
Well done, Sheila.
Your quick thinking and your
bravery mean that the crew is
now safe.
[inhale] Thank you!
Marcos!
Open the insect enclosure.
Help me throw this thing in.
Right.
[roar]
(SHICHSEI) I must tell you...
I'm here on orders from U-NASA
to kill you, Honda.
To ensure your silence.
(KOU) Still resentful, I see.
All because of my contribution
to the Bugs Procedure no doubt?
[scoff] Naturally.
Although the Japanese public
seemed pleased enough
with the final outcome.
But you and I both know that
the greatest threat to
inter-corporate competition
...is the theft of classified
technology.
(NARRATOR) The culprit was not
fire.
[inhaling]
What tore a hole through
Sheila's chest was a searing-hot
weaponized vapor...
Hydrogen peroxide and
hydroquinone.
Th-The Bugs Procedure!
How?!
(NARRATOR) Shokichi Komachi knew
the attack move well.
The bombardier beetle's spray.
The very same ability acquired
by a Bugs 2 crew member
twenty years ago.
[gasp]
[plop]
Sheila!
Sis
(SYLVESTER) There's no doubt
about it...It's enhanced.
Its rapid movement is a remnant
of The Bugs Procedure.
That's the Rove beetle's
ability!
(NARRATOR) 20 years ago, in the
fight  against the terraformars,
the  members of Bugs 2 became
part of an experiment.
They were made human hybrids,
their DNA spliced
with various insects.
All with the hope of gaining
an edge over the Martian
cockroaches. All in the name of
the unstealable weapon
But then...
The unthinkable...
[heavy breathing, growling]
Let me go! Do you hear me?! It's
because you...[exhales]
Please forgive me.
Conserving the serum was a grave
misstep.
[gasp]
I suggest you get up, sir.
Quickly. The enemy...
[roar]
[yelling]
[thwack]
[heavy panting]
Sheila!
[inhales]
[struggling exhales]
[strained breathing]
(SHOKICHI) Don't...
[whimpers]
You'll only make it worse.
Captain!
[whimpers]
Please just listen
Sheila was
(SHEILA) I was wondering
Huh?
Could you teach me something in
Japanese?
Well, it depends. Are you trying
to woo the captain?
Oh, this is too good.
[chortle]
(EVA) Just teach her already!
[struggling to speak, whimpers]
(AKARI) All right, all
right...So you  want to profess
your feelings to a Japanese guy,
huh?
It's best to keep it simple.
Look him straight in the eyes
and tell him how you feel
[laborous breathing]
[long exhale]
[gasp]
(SHOKICHI) I understand, Sheila.
I'm so sorry.
(KOU) I presume that you're
attempting it again?
To a whole new group, a new
crew?
The Bugs Procedure, I mean.
Yeah, a tricky two part
operation, wasn't it?
The Terraformar...
The Terraformar Immunotolerance
Organ Transplantation,
and the human-insect DNA
amalgamation operation are two
highly dangerous procedures.
But you knew that.
Ah, yes, of course.
However...
The surgery given to those
onboard the Annex 1
has a new name.
It's no longer referred to as
the Bugs Procedure.
Really?!
(SYLVESTER) That roach wasn't
alone because it was lost.
He's too highly skilled. That
was a coordinated attack and we
walked right into it.
Astounding! They've adopted a
hierarchy of leadership.
Somehow, they figured out we
split into six groups...
... and our exact locations.
(SHOKICHI) If these roaches have
undergone  the Bugs Procedure...
They either stole it, or
someone provided them with
the Bugs 2 Technology.
Dammit.
All that means is they've become
even bigger pests, nothing
more.
We have the edge.
They're relying on outdated
technology!
Akari, serum.
Ivan! Down the hatch.
(SHICHISEI) The Bugs Procedure
was insufficient, so we created
a new operation called...
Artificial Metamorphosis...
Mosaic Organ Operation!
(AKARI) You're vermin of a
destitute planet. A planet with
a deserted, arid past.
We come from Earth, a planet one
million,  two hundred and fifty
thousand species strong.
So don't fuck with us!
(KOU) The Mosaic Organ?
Do you mean the terraformar
immune tolerance organ that  was
used in the Bugs Procedure
twenty years ago?
(SHICHISEI) That's correct.
It's what allowed the
terraformars to mutate so
drastically in as little as
just five hundred years.
It's an evolutionary
development that brought us to
the next  level of gene
splicing. And we stole it.
The mosaic organ.
It seems identical to the Bugs
Procedure.
But if it's no longer termed
Bugs, then...
That's just it...
We're no longer limited to just
insects.
We have effectively been able
to tap into any species
of organism on Earth.
To that...
...we've added the carapace,
muscle  fibers, and  open
circulatory system.
Which means...
We still have the advantages of
the Bugs Procedure...
...but this breakthrough also
gives us the added unique
abilities of Earth's creatures
from the land, seas, and skies.
But, still twenty years ago,
even the giant hornet
and bullet ant strains struggled
on Mars.
Even with those added
abilities, will it truly make a
difference? We've seen what
those creatures are capable of.
What besides a human-sized
insect could possibly defeat
those Martian roaches?!
[insect-like shriek]
[insect-like chirping]
[bang]
[gasps]
[gasp, inhale]
(NARRATOR) The common cockroach
can move at unparalleled speed.
At human scale,
it has an explosive power that
could propel it up to
speeds of three hundred and
twenty kilometers  per hour.
The velocity of its legs is
unmatched by any other creature!
[barking roar, pounding]
Except one!
[shout]
[slam]
[surge]
[juicy wallop]
On the same scale, there is
only one organism that can
surpass the cockroach, both in
speed and strength...
...an arthropod called the
huntsman spider.
It spins no web, instead
relying on its fine hairs, eight
eyes, and unique muscle fibers
to catch its prey.
[seething]
[yell and juicy bash]
[screaming]
(SHEILA) So, you're Marcos and
Alex, huh?
Now, listen up! If you're going
to live in our complex, you'll
have to respect the rules and
keep out of trouble!
As daughter of the landlord,
you'll answer to me!
Hey, just who is this chick?
Let's report her.
Wait, she isn't your little
sister?
Well, then I call dibs on her.
Hey, no one gets dibs on
anything!
[panting]
[shouting]
[smash]
[juicy whomp]
[yelling]
[whack, cracking]
[heavy breathing]
(THUG A) You actually thought
you could take us?
[sneer]...You might wanna
apologize now.
Huh?!
(THUG B) Who the hell's this
little punk?
You really think you're gonna
protect them?
I am!
Sheila, get out of here, it
isn't safe!
No!
Now get out of here, you two!
It's the landlord's duty to
protect employees,
no matter the cost!
[growl]
(SHEILA) What are you doing?!
Why aren't you idiots running
away?! I said go!
[slam, ripping, yelling]
(ALEX) What's the big deal? We
won.
[ripping, yelling]
(SHEILA) They just got sick of
knocking you knuckleheads
around! Look at yourselves!
Sheila... [ripping, yelling]
I thought you jerks were gonna
die! [sobbing]
Look, we're sorry Sheila.
[yelling]
We promise to cut back on the
fighting, okay?
No, not just cut back!
[yelling]
Okay, we'll stop.
[harrumph]
Thank you...
For saving us.
Good!
(MARCOS) Thank you.
[yelling, ripping]
[thud, yelling]
[thwack]
(SHEILA) Got yourself into
another brawl?
Honestly,...why don't you try
picking up sports, or something
productive?
So...
Did you win your game this time,
Marcos?
Bastards...
you're dead!
(ALEX) Sheila sort of looked
prettier  than usual today.
(MARCOS) Well, considering how
she usually looks, I guess.
Huh?
[chuckle]
(MARCOS) Sh-Sheila.
Wh-What about the party?
Private Sheila has returned,
awkward as ever, to grace you
with her presence.
(MARCOS) Wow, that was fast.
(SHEILA) Well, there wasn't a
whole lot there to work with.
And did I happen to overhear you
two talkin' 'bout me?
(ALEX) Wha-N-No!
Are you sure?
Absolutely sure?
(MARCOS) Totally sure!
Then what? What? C'mon what?
Tell me!
(ALEX) Nothing, I said!
(SHEILA) Okay, okay I'll drop
it...I  know it was about me
anyway.
to be continued
05 EXCEPTIONAL TWO
[insect-like attacking yell]